# Schemeã®3ã¤ã®å®Ÿè£…ãƒ¢ãƒ‡ãƒ«

by
R. Kent Dybvig

ãƒãƒ¼ã‚¹ã‚«ãƒ­ãƒ©ã‚¤ãƒŠå¤§å­¦ãƒãƒ£ãƒšãƒ«ãƒ’ãƒ«æ ¡ã®æ•™æˆé™£ã«æå‡ºã•ã‚ŒãŸå­¦ä½è«–æ–‡ã§ã™ã€‚
ã‚³ãƒ³ãƒ”ãƒ¥ãƒ¼ã‚¿ã‚µã‚¤ã‚¨ãƒ³ã‚¹å­¦ç§‘ã®åšå£«å·å–å¾—ã®ãŸã‚ã®è¦ä»¶ã®ä¸€éƒ¨ã‚’æº€ãŸã™ãŸã‚ã«ã€ãƒãƒ¼ã‚¹ã‚«ãƒ­ãƒ©ã‚¤ãƒŠå¤§å­¦ãƒãƒ£ãƒšãƒ«ãƒ’ãƒ«æ ¡ã®æ•™æˆé™£ã«æå‡ºã•ã‚ŒãŸè«–æ–‡ã§ã™ã€‚
ã‚³ãƒ³ãƒ”ãƒ¥ãƒ¼ã‚¿ã‚µã‚¤ã‚¨ãƒ³ã‚¹å­¦ç§‘ã®å“²å­¦åšå£«ã®å­¦ä½è¦ä»¶ã®ä¸€éƒ¨ã‚’æº€ãŸã™ãŸã‚ã«æå‡ºã•ã‚ŒãŸè«–æ–‡ã§ã™ã€‚

Chapel Hill

1987

## æŠ„éŒ²

This dissertation presents three implementation models for the Scheme Programming
Language. The rst is a heap-based model used in some form in most Scheme
implementations to date; the second is a new stack-based model that is considerably
more ecient than the heap-based model at executing most programs; and
the third is a new string-based model intended for use in a multiple-processor implementation
of Scheme. The heap-based model allocates several important data
structures in a heap, including actual parameter lists, binding environments, and
call frames. The stack-based model allocates these same structures on a stack
whenever possible. This results in less heap allocation, fewer memory references,
shorter instruction sequences, less garbage collection, and more ecient use of
memory. The string-based model allocates versions of these structures right in
the program text, which is represented as a string of symbols. In the string-based
model, Scheme programs are translated into an FFP language designed specically
to support Scheme. Programs in this language are directly executed by the FFP
machine, a multiple-processor string-reduction computer. The stack-based model
is of immediate practical benet; it is the model used by the author's Chez Scheme
system, a high-performance implementation of Scheme. The string-based model
will be useful for providing Scheme as a high-level alternative to FFP on the FFP
machine once the machine is realized.

## Acknowledgements

I would like to thank my advisor, Gyula A. Mago, for his assistance and guidance
throughout my work on this project. His steadiness and patient support were
essential to its completion. I appreciate his help more than he knows.
I would like to thank the other members of my committee as well: Dean
Brock, Dave Plaisted, Rick Snodgrass, and Don Stanat. Each was willing to
spend time discussing various facets of the research, and each oered challenges
and suggestions that helped me along the way.
I would also like to thank Dan Friedman, who introduced me to Scheme and
to many of the concepts of functional programming and parallel computing.
I would like to thank the many other people who have been helpful along the
way, especially Bruce Smith, Dave Middleton, and Bharat Jayaraman.
I would like to thank my parents, Roger S. Dybvig and Elizabeth H. Dybvig,
for their support throughout my education.
Finally, I would like to thank my wife, Susan, who deserves more appreciation
than I can ever show for her support throughout my advanced education and for
her assistance and patience during the writing of this dissertation.

